We see that the entire digestive system is well suspended at the base of the skull.
This means there is a very important movement called the movement between the sacrum and the occiput,
which is a movement of life, a balancing movement, that supports health.
If I have too much tension here, I can disrupt my craniosacral system.
sacral.
This means we have your sternum here, and we saw that ultimately,
we saw that ultimately,
the embryo made a global movement in its development where the turntable
expressed itself
on my sternum, meaning that not only do I have a cranio-sternal-sacral system,
and we will
later add in the development cranio-sterno-sacral-mandibular,
which is also a phase of expansion,
which is also a phase of retraction, which is also a phase of inspiration,
which is also the phase
of expiration. The teeth, the base of the teeth, will influence,
will provide the mapping of the base
of the skull, which contains, I remind you, in this sphenoidal plane, a gland
which, in relation to
my pineal gland, is a gland that supports the hormonal process. This
means it is a global axis
for my entire hormonal system. We are hormonal beings.
hormonal beings. We are
completely dependent on our glands.
Pineal gland,
pituitary gland,
thyroid,
adrenal, gonadal.
This axis is fundamental.
There is also something
that is very important, which is to understand well
the balance between
my thyroid and adrenal systems.
These are systems
of adaptation. So, nervous,
vascular, glandular. And the glandular system, in its proper function, will be
dependent on the connective system. This means that to release a connective system,
to release an endocrine system, I must work on my fascial tissue,
alimentary. Don't forget that there was a chronology of appearance. So we already remember
that the entire digestive system is suspended at the base
of the skull. We can
imagine it as a rope.
I ring the bell, you see, my digestive system
is suspended and we will see how it is suspended by the fascial system up to my
base of the skull.
We have a tissue that is divided into a boundary tissue and an
internal tissue.
This means that the most important thing here will be my boundary tissue.
We will study the endoderm in this boundary tissue and we see that the endoderm is ultimately
an epithelium.
it's a boundary tissue
so it's a tissue
of exchange
I exchange with my mesoderm
it's the one that contains the primary
information, it's the royal road
I exchange through this
the tissue is an epithelial
tissue
endodermal like the ectoderm
it's an epithelial tissue
so that's why it's a boundary
tissue
in the boundary tissue there is never
never any congestion. Congestions
are always treated at the mesodermal level, so
our tissue is the mesodermal tissue and there it carries
what? It carries, among other things, all
your vascular systems. The second important thing is the endodermal tissue,
the epithelial tissue,
whether it's a boundary of endodermal type
or a boundary or limit of ectodermal type,
it's the one that carries the glandular system.
In other words, all glands always derive from your
boundary tissue.
So all glands are always a tissue that has an epithelial origin.
You have many glands.
We can consider that, for example, at the thyroid level, it is a gland.
But we can consider that your lungs are a gland.
We can consider that your liver is a gland.
These are expansions of your epithelial tube.
It's an epithelial endoderm.
So it's important to consider that my endoderm will give rise to,
and that my ectoderm, via my epithelial system, carries my hormonal plan.
Don't forget,
The hormonal system goes deep into the body.
It is dependent on my system, among others, largely digestive or ectodermal.
Largely digestive.
This is the phrase to remember.
The internal tissue is both the engine and
the resistance to growth to limit tissues in their development.
I'm going to call this the algorithm.
for development.
That is, it's a repetitive system.
This means that at some point,
the growth rates are not the same speed in the tissue.
And these growth rates will give us fulcrum points,
which are points, what we call hitchpoints.
When you have hitchpoints,
you have hinge points of general organization.
And we, the body,
The body knows what it needs to do, there's no problem for it.
However, we must support its process.
And to support its process, we must return to ontogenetic qualities,
qualities where the tissue can reorganize itself.
A fulcrum is a point of support for the creation of a form
and which always remains present.
For example, it's also a fulcrum between a balance point.
between a moment when I have a change.
First major articulation in the body.
I have my vascular system, that is, my two primitive vessels that are there.
The internal tissue, namely the mesodermal tissue,
what does it contain?
The mesodermal tissue contains vessels.
These vessels will develop early in an embryo.
meaning that when I have my notochord, I see appearing laterally, by approach
to my neural plate, a reorganization of my body's fluid system. So
this
reintegration of my fluid system means that my internal system brings
brings
energy, so it's an engine, but it doesn't grow at
the same speed, so
it's a brake. My ectoderm behind it grows super fast, because
it
is super nourished. So, I represent my ectoderm. Here,
what do I see? I
see my heart or the primitive cardiac congestion zone which is first above my
head, that is, in the caudal part of my embryo. The
ectoderm which is my body
grows much faster than here. I grow, I grow and there is a brake here
in front.
Well, I come to curl up.
around my cardiac zone, rewind, if
you look, the heart here, in development,
it doesn't grow at the same speed, so it becomes a global fulcrum
for development.
This means that my first fulcrum will be on this heart, and my sphenobasilar symphysis.
This global movement of development becomes like an organizational plan, like
an articulation plan.
articulations and you will see that all my articulations are nothing but the sequential repetition
of the same process of this algorithm. A kidney on a liver is an articulation,
a lung on a diaphragm, a lung on a heart, these are phases of articulation.
Why can I flex like this and why can't I flex that way? Because
I have an olecranon. But before there was no olecranon, yet I still
went that way. Why? I curl towards my vascular system. Here I have an artery.
There, I don't have one. And what do I do? I do this. If I had an artery here, I would have the capacity to go that way.
to go that way.
And look here, it's the same thing. And you see, what does a small embryo do at
the beginning? It curls up like this.
Completely. And you will see that your brain will follow vascular fields of development.
Last time, we studied this brain development. We did the brain tai chi. Do you remember
?
we'll do it again later
and we'll integrate it this time
with the digestive system
because not only what happens there
happens here synchronously
and we're going to start to see
that what happens here
can be a phenomenon that gets blocked there
and that treating, for example,
a line here, will release
a visceral articulation
or vice versa
the navel
you eliminate
completely maintained here when you enter the uterine earth
that you embody this first
moment, this first contact, it's this search here, it's a huge contact, you
are in and it
always happens in a very specific pole, you remember, it always happens on
a
assimilative plane, meaning it's a plane, you remember I talked about polarity,
we had
talked about polarity
One of the first things the embryo did was polarity.
The moment I enter this mucosa, I enter through an organized electrical, electromagnetic field.
organized.
I don't enter in a disorganized way, I always enter in the same way,
through my assimilative plane, through the plane where I seek trophic information.
So I arrive, this first contact, it's an important contact with the mother, embryonic pedicle.
embryonic pedicle.
and that the final umbilical cord will be the
vestige here of the vitelline vesicle with the
embryonic pedicle.
The two together will form this umbilical cord.
So the umbilical cord, the umbilicus here, will be the
meeting point between this primitive phase of integration of
your incarnation.
in the uterine flesh
with this first contact that will be made
and then we will see later
with the establishment of my cavity
of the integration of my
external coelom into an internal coelom
and more specifically
even before
it's the establishment of Heuser's membrane
with the establishment
of my vitelline vesicle and my
external coelom
which was going to form this S
of organization in auto-correlation
which gave back the integration towards my attachment at the level
of my global system.
Because your intestine and your body are a symbol.
And they carry the symbolization of your words.
Not just anywhere.
You realized your symbol or you remained in your diabole.
I am dispersed or I am concentrated, gathered.
I was able to gather myself.
and many people are still in the diabolism of their integration because
they haven't found the symbol. Many people start from the symbol.